# Github repository with files for Bachelor Thesis "Models of Player Evaluation in Football"

The main objective of the thesis is to evaluate players’  performance during the 2018 FIFA World Cup using a data-driven approach. To do so, I use 4 different mathematical models: expected goals model, plus-minus model, expected threat model (https://karun.in/blog/expected-threat.html) and VAEP model (https://dtai.cs.kuleuven.be/sports/vaep/?toggle=scroller). I implement all of these models in Python environment. The first model is a logistic regression model, the second is a linear regression model with binary parameters determined by the player’s presence on the pitch. The expected threat model is a model based on Markov chain and probabilities of transition between 2 areas on the pitch. VAEP model is a Machine Learning model that gives a value to an action which is a percentage of stages after the action of this type that resulted in a goal. The data used is the WyScout data from “"Soccer match event dataset" by L. Pappalarado and E. Massucco. In the first chapter of the thesis, I present the mathematical concepts behind all of these models. In the second chapter, I introduce all of the models I use in my calculations as well as describe the dataset. In the last chapter, I present my calculations. Then I compare the results and assess which model is the most reliable one to evaluate players’  performance. With the results, I build my own team of the tournament. As the next step, I compare how the data-driven results differ from journalists’  subjective eye-test. The conclusions from my research I present as a summary of my thesis.

Files labels and features were too big to add on github
